# Data-Analysis Titanic project using data analysis
Used Titanic dataset to analyze the survival rate depending on various factors. I used python language and jupyter Notebook, for writing the code.
First we analysed survival rate of passengers based on gender there we found that female survival rate is more than the male survival rate.Then we analysed based on the class there we found that female passengers travelling in 1st class has more survival rate i.e. 96.8% whereas male passengers has 36.8%.Female passengers travelling in 2nd class has 92.1% and male passengers has 15.7% survival rate.And female passengers travelling in 3rd class has 50.0% and male passengers has 13.54% survival rate. Then we analysed childrens survival rates there we found that overall survival rate for childrens is 50% but when we analysed based on classes we found that 1st class childrens passengers have 87.5% survival rate, 2nd class childrens have 39.3% and 3rd class chilrens have 35.10 % survival rates. Then we analysed the cabin passengers which were mostly from 1st class as compared to 2nd and 3rd classes, and found that almost 49% of cabin population survived whereas only 30% of other population without cabin survived.Then we found out the survival rates based on the embarkment which are as follows:<li> Port 'S' = 33.69 %,</li><li> Port 'C' = 55.35 %,</li><li>Port 'Q' = 38.96 %.</li>

So based on all the analysis my hypothesis is, there were more passengers travelling in class 3 as compared to other two classes, and there were more males on the ship as compared to females but the survival rate clearly shows that female passengers survived more as compared to the males, though there are some missing age values due to which we can't predict what was the exact survival rate, as they can be childrens or adults because it may affect the result. So we can predict that may be female were put on the lifeboat first but that too according to their classes that means 1st class female passengers were allowed in lifeboats first, then second and then third. After all the females same way was followed for the males, but this is all hypothesis because so many age values are missing, and can't predict exactly. Also after the 'cabin' analysis, it is clear that passengers having cabins were more likely to survive, again most of the passengers travelling in 1st class had cabins as compared to 2nd and 3rd. Or may be the location of the cabins was responsible for the survival rate. So can't say anything for sure.This dataset was at least in part collected after the titanic sank since we have the Survived variable. But this means that we will have more data available from those that survived. After all, it's very hard to survey a dead person!

For me the most intresting part was to analyse passengers according to the ports they 'embarked' and 'cabin'. I enjoyed analysing the data, and hope you like my analysis too.# Data-Analysis
Titanic project using data analysis
Used Titanic dataset to analyze the survival rate depending on various factors. I used python language and jupyter Notebook, for writing the code.

